Objects, shall we object?
Let's talk about for of loops for a sec.
We use them.
We love them, maybe.
Do we?
Perhaps, okay, we're okay with them.
We earlier were talking about different
ways to iterate over stuff in JavaScript.
And there's been many
options over the years.
for of is a relatively new one.
We also have the forEach() method
sometimes that we can call.
We also have the .map() method
that we can call sometimes.
What's going on with all this?
Let's talk about it.
But let's start with for of.
Okay, so
hopefully you've seen this syntax before.
When we have something like an array,
for example,
here I have an array of engines,
V8, SpiderMonkey, etc, etc.
I can put in a for loop, for
(let eng of engines), and
then console.log() that engine
to uppercase, and we get out,
as we would expect, one log for
each of the values in my engines.
Similarly, when I do an element.children
property from our dom API.
If I wanna get the children
elements of a document,
if I wanna get the divs inside of another
div that's inside of another div, yeah.
If I wanna get the children of an element,
there's a .children for that, and
I can also use that in a for of.
And so, for example,
if I log each of the child's tag names,
I'll get head and body and blah blah blah.
You can try this out in the browser,
in the console.
The important thing is,
in both of these cases,
we are able to iterate over this data,
all of the strings in an array,
all of the HTML elements
that are the children
of another HTML element,
this is iteration.
And this is one way of doing it.
Now we also know,
as we just mentioned, .map().
And if I try to do the .map()
approach on the array engines,
all good, I get basically the same thing.
It's not logged to the console, it's a new
array with the uppercase values in it, but
I've still iterated over all of them.
But if I try to do that on the document
children, I get TypeError, not a function.
How many times in my life have I
seen these words, not a function?
Goodness.
Anyway, what is going on here?
The for of loop worked the same way.
The .map() does not work.
It works on engines, but
it doesn't work on children.
What gives?
So let's try to dig in,
after briefly appreciating this classic
meme of confusion, which JavaScript,
I feel like, puts me in all the time.
All right, so for of worked on both,
.map() doesn't work.
What's the deal?
Okay, we have a typeof
operator in JavaScript, so
let's see what kinda
types we got going on.
So if I do typeof engines,
I get object, okay, all right?
I thought it was an array, but
I guess an array is an object.
And then what about children?
Yeah, that's also an object.
Cool, great, fabulous, thank you.
This is not helpful typeof.
[LAUGH] What if we start looking for
the prototype of the object?
What are we dealing with, prototype?
So we mentioned this briefly in
first steps, but essentially,
in JavaScript's object oriented
programming, everything is an object,
an array, a string,
sort of, a [LAUGH] function.
They're all objects.
And, Objects have prototypes,
where a prototype is sort of like
an object that all of its properties and
methods are gonna be accessible to the,
we could sort of think of it as
a sub object with that prototype.
So let's use this, we're just gonna invoke
without thinking about it too hard,
the capital O object.getPrototype of
method and give it a value, like engines.
And now we get a little bit
more useful differentiation.
We see that they're both type object,
not helpful, but
they have different prototypes.
The first one has an array
as its prototype.
This is the same thing as
the built-in array, object.
In case you've done array.from or
anything like that,
we'll talk about it in a second.
But also, if we call it on doc.children,
we see we get a totally
different type of thing.
Well, totally different thing.
Types really have gone out
the window at this point,
which is the whole reason TypeScript
exists, basically [LAUGH].
Well, no, I'm oversimplifying, but
there's other courses about that.
We're not doing that here.
Anyway, the prototype of the children
property on an HTML element is
something called HTML collection
prototype, which, all right,
I still don't really know what that is,
but
at least we can tell that these
are two different kinds of objects.
So we talk about the prototype
chain in JavaScript.
Every object has a prototype,
and that prototype,
like array, has its own prototype.
So we can follow this kind of chain,
and there's this sort of secret-ish,
not really secret, but fancy, cuz it has
double underscores [LAUGH] around it,
a property called __proto__ [LAUGH].
And that will tell you also what
the prototype is of an object.
The nice part is you can chain them
together so you can keep going up.
Okay, so engines.proto is array, but
engines.proto.proto is object, all right?
What about engines.proto.proto.proto?
Null, whoa!
We've reached the top of the prototype
chain, or the end of the prototype chain.
This is a slightly different chain,
a food chain in which plants are at
the bottom, that's our individual array.
Animals are in the middle, this is
our array, then there's humans, and
then there's zombies at
the top that eat everything.